# CIS L1 Debian 13 (Trixie) Hardening
## Foreword
This playbook has only been tested on a fresh installation of Debian 13, and **may potentially break installations** that already have been customised or **may potentially break applications** that have already been installed. This playbook has also **not** been tested on desktop environments.

If this playbook is to be used on existing installations of Debian 13, **make a backup before applying**. 

## Excluded Sections
This playbook includes all the Automated compliance settings as much as possible. All Manual compliance settings have to be done, well, manually. This playbook also **does not** apply Level 2 compliance settings.

Furthermore, since this playbook isn't tested on desktop environments, the entire 1.7 section is skipped.

## Before Using This Playbook
- **Carefully review the options in ./options/\*.yaml** before running this playbook.
- Explanations and appropriate values for each option is in each of the .yaml files for easy reference.
- In particular: 
    - kernel_module_options.yaml: Ensure that the filesystems you need are not blacklisted
    - fs_options.yaml: The playbook assumes that you do not have partitioning done by default. If required, filesystem partitions are to follow the filesystem as per /etc/fstab
    - bootloader_options.yaml: Replace the username and password in the options. The password should be generated by grub-mkpasswd-pbkdf2. The password in the file is "P@ssw0rd" and **should never be used in production**
    - motd_options.yaml: Configure the MOTD and issue/issue.net messages accordingly. You may choose to turn off MOTD as well if it isn't required.
